Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Our destination is planet Deneb Four, beyond which lies the great unexplored mass of the galaxy. My orders are to examine Farpoint, a starbase built there by the inhabitants of that world. Meanwhile, I am becoming better acquainted with my new command, this Galaxy Class USS Enterprise. I am still somewhat in awe of its size and complexity. As for my crew, we are short in several key positions, most notably a first officer, but I am informed that a highly experienced man, one Commander William Riker, will be waiting to join our ship at our Deneb Four destination. 
[Bridge] 
PICARD: You will agree, Data, that Starfleet's orders are difficult? 
DATA: Difficult? Simply solve the mystery of Farpoint Station. 
PICARD: As simple as that. 
TROI: Farpoint Station. Even the name sounds mysterious. 
PICARD: It's hardly simple, Data, to negotiate a friendly agreement for Starfleet to use the base while at the same time snoop around finding how and why the life form there built it. 
DATA: Inquiry. The word snoop? 
PICARD: Data, how can you be programmed as a virtual encyclopedia of human information without knowing a simple word like snoop? 
DATA: Possibility, a kind of human behaviour I was not designed to emulate. 
PICARD: It means to spy, to sneak. 
DATA: Ah! To seek covertly, to go stealthily, to slink, slither 
PICARD: Exactly, yes. 
DATA: Glide, creep, skulk, pussyfoot, gumshoe. 
TROI: Captain, I'm sensing a powerful mind. 
(Collision alert sounds) 
TORRES: Something strange on the detector circuits. 
(A massive barrier appears in front of them in space) 
DATA: It registers as solid, Captain. 
TROI: Or an incredibly powerful forcefield. But if we collide with either it could be very 
PICARD: Shut off that damned noise. Go to Yellow Alert. 
WORF: Shields and deflectors up, sir. 
(The barrier ripples like chain mail) 
PICARD: Reverse power, full stop. 
TORRES: Controls to full stop, sir. Now reading full stop, sir. 
(There's a flash of light, and an Elizabethan era soldier appears, complete with breast plate and plumed hat) 
Q: Thou are notified that thy kind hath infiltrated the galaxy too far already. Thou art directed to return to thine own solar system immediately. 
PICARD: That's quite a directive. Would you mind identifying what you are? 
Q: We call ourselves the Q. Or thou mayst call me that. It's all much the same thing. 
(The same force barrier stops two people exiting the turbolift) 
Q: I present myself to thee as a fellow ship captain, that thou mayst better understand me. Go back whence thou camest. (to Helmsman) Stay where thou art! 
(And the helmsman is frozen solid, phaser in hand) 
PICARD: Data, call medics. 
TROI: He's frozen. 
PICARD: He would not have injured you. Do you recognise this, the stun setting? 
Q: Knowing humans as thou dost, Captain, wouldst thou be captured helpless by them? Now, go back or thou shalt most certainly die. 
Captain's log, supplementary. The frozen form of Lieutenant Torres has been rushed to sickbay. The question now is the incredible power of the Q being. Do we dare oppose it? 
[Bridge] 
Q: Captain, thy little centuries go by so rapidly. Perhaps thou will better understand this. 
(A flash of light and he is wearing a 20th century US military uniform, with a cigarette in his hand) 
Q: Actually, the issue at stake is patriotism. You must return to your world and put an end to the commies. All it takes is a few good men. 
PICARD: What? That nonsense is centuries behind us. 
Q: But you can't deny that you're still a dangerous, savage child race. 
PICARD: Most certainly I deny it. I agree we still were when humans wore costumes like that, four hundred years ago. 
Q: At which time you slaughtered millions in silly arguments about how to divide the resources of your little world. And four hundred years before that you were murdering each other in quarrels over tribal god-images. Since there are no indications that humans will ever change. 
PICARD: But even when we wore costumes like that we'd already started to make rapid progress. 
Q: Oh yeah? You want to review your rapid progress? 
(Flash, and a change into a padded suit) 
Q: Rapid progress, to where humans learned to control their military with drugs. 
WORF: Sir, sickbay reports Lieutenant Torres's condition is better. 
Q: Oh, concern for one's fellow comrade. How touching. 
WORF: And now a personal request, sir. Permission to clean up the bridge. 
TASHA: Lieutenant Worf is right, sir. As Security Chief I can't just stand here and let
PICARD: Yes you can, Lieutenant Yar. 
Q: (taking a snort of something) Oh, better. And later, on finally reaching deep space, humans of course found enemies to fight out there too. And to broaden those struggles you again found allies for still more murdering. The same old story, all over again. 
PICARD: No. The same old story is the one we're meeting now. Self-righteous life forms who are eager not to learn but to prosecute, to judge anything they don't understand or can't tolerate. 
Q: What an interesting idea. Prosecute and judge. Suppose it turns out we understand you humans only too well. 
PICARD: We've no fear of what the true facts about us will reveal. 
Q: Facts about you? Splendid, splendid, Captain! You're a veritable fountain of good ideas. There are preparations to make, but when we next meet, Captain, we'll proceed exactly as you suggest. 
(A flash and he is gone) 
WORF: Sir, respectfully submit our only choice is to fight. 
TASHA: Fight, or try to escape. 
PICARD: Sense anything, Commander? 
TROI: Its mind is much too powerful. Recommend we avoid contact. 
PICARD: From this point, no station aboard, repeat no station, for any reason will make use of transmitted signals or intercom. We'll try and take them by surprise. Let's see what this galaxy class starship can do. (to Worf) Lieutenant, inform engine room to prepare for maximum acceleration. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Records search, Data. Results of detaching saucer section at high warp velocity. 
DATA: Inadvisable at any warp speed, sir. 
PICARD: Search theoretical. 
DATA: It is possible, sir. But absolutely no margin for error. 
PICARD: Using print-out only, notify all decks to prepare for maximum acceleration. Now hear this, Maximum, you're entitled to know, means that we'll be pushing our engines well beyond safety limits. Our hope is to surprise whatever that is out there, try and outrun it. Our only other option is to tuck tail between our legs and return to Earth as they demand. 
(Worf makes his trip to Engineering and back) 
WORF: Engine room ready, sir. 
TROI: The board shows green, Captain. All go. 
PICARD: Stand by. Engage. 
(They swoop along and past the barrier, which then turns into a ball and chases them) 
WORF: Velocity warp nine point two. 
DATA: Heading three five one mark eleven, sir. 
PICARD: Steady on that. 
TASHA: The hostile is now giving chase, sir. Accelerating fast. 
WORF: We're now at warp nine point three, sir, which takes us past the red line, sir. 
PICARD: Continue accelerating. Counsellor, at this point I'm open to guesses about what we've just met. 
TROI: It it felt like something beyond what we'd consider a life form. 
PICARD: Beyond? 
TROI: Very, very advanced, sir, or certainly very, very different. 
WORF: We're at nine point four, sir. 
TASHA: Hostile is now beginning to overtake us, sir. 
PICARD: Are you sure? 
DATA: Hostile's velocity is already warp nine point six, sir. Shall I put them on the main viewer? 
PICARD: Reverse angle. 
DATA: Magnifying viewer image. 
TASHA: Hostile's velocity is nine point seven, sir. 
PICARD: Worf, inform the engine room we need more. 
DATA: Engine room attempting to comply, sir, but they caution us 
PICARD: Go to yellow alert. Arm aft photon torpedoes. Place them on ready status. 
TASHA: Torpedoes to ready, sir. 
TASHA: Hostile now at warp nine point eight, sir. 
WORF: Our velocity is only nine point five, sir. 
DATA: Projection, sir. We may be able to match hostile's nine point eight, sir. But at extreme risk. 
TASHA: Now reading the hostile at warp nine point nine, sir. 
PICARD: Now hear this. Print-out message, urgent, all stations on all decks. Prepare for emergency saucer sever. You will command the saucer section, Lieutenant. 
WORF: I am a Klingon, sir. For me to seek escape when my Captain goes into battle. 
PICARD: You are a Starfleet officer, Lieutenant. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Make the mark, Data. Note in ship's log that at this startime, I'm transferring command to the battle bridge. (Picard, Data, Yar and Troi leave the Bridge to unnamed crew) 
Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Preparing to detach saucer section. so that families and the majority of the ship's company can seek relative safety while the vessel's stardrive, containing the battle bridge and main armaments, will turn back and confront the mystery that is threatening us. 
[Battle Bridge] 
(Families of various races make their way along corridors as the bridge crew settle into a more compact Bridge) 
PICARD: Lieutenant, your torpedoes must detonate close enough to the hostile to blind it at the moment we separate. 
TASHA: Understood, sir. 
TROI: All decks acknowledging, sir. 
PICARD: Worf, this is the Captain. 
[Bridge] 
PICARD [OC]: At the moment of separation, we will reverse power just enough to get your saucer section out ahead and clear of us. 
WORF: Understood, Captain. 
[Battle Bridge] 
TASHA: Torpedoes away, sir. 
(Eight red dots shoot out from the stern) 
PICARD: Begin countdown. Mark. 
DATA: Starship separation in six, five, four, three, two, one. 
(Gracefully, the huge saucer lifts away from the body of the ship) 
DATA: Separation is successful, sir. 
(The main body does a hand-brake turn and heads back to their pursuer. The torpedoes detonate.) 
TASHA: Torpedoes have detonated, sir. 
PICARD: Let's come to a stop. Reverse power. 
DATA: Reverse power. Decelerating. 
PICARD: Dead stop. We'll hold this position and wait for them. 
TROI: That will bring them here in just minutes, sir. 
TASHA: Will we make a fight of it, Captain? If we can at least damage their ship we'll have a chance 
PICARD: Lieutenant, are you recommending we fight a life form that can do all those things? I'd like to hear your advice. 
TASHA: I spoke before I thought, sir. We should look for some way to distract them from going after the saucer. 
O'BRIEN: All forward motion stopped, sir. 
PICARD: Thank you, conn. Commander, signal the following in all languages and on all frequencies. We surrender. State that we are not asking for any terms or conditions. 
TROI: Aye, sir. All language forms and frequencies. 
(The ball reaches them and surrounds them with it's barrier. The ship shakes) 